Fullstack = frontend + backend


Node js
It is not a language or a framework but runtime environment.
where we can run javascript
which is used to create stand alone applications.
which can be used on the browser as well as server side = full stack development.

nodejs - server side runtime
express js - framework for developing web application
npm - node package manager -  which gives all the dependent packages and modules for node js. There are millions of packages available in npm.

node js - javascript runtime environment that uses v8 javascript engine.

v8 - chrome

we can run the javascript in the browser with the help of javascript engine which converts the js code to machine code.


nodejs has some inbuilt modules:
http 
filesystem
express
upper-case
cryptography, etc.


npm:
npmjs.com it is the page where you can find the dependencies, npm is now the part of github and github is the part of microsoft.


javascript:
frontend: Angular js, react js
backend: node js
Framework for web development: Express js like java - Spring MVC, python - Django


REST API - Http methods
GET 

Ex: GET http://localhost:9000/students - to get all the students
    GET http://localhost:9000/students/<id> - to get one particular student

POST

Ex: POST http://localhost:9000/saveStudent - to store the student details in database.

PATCH - for update (small changes)
PUT - also for update (huge amount of updation)
DELETE 


Create folder 
go to file path 
and type npm init
if we want express install express using "npm install express"
if we use mongodb -> npm install mongodb, npm install mongoose
if we install nodemon -> we need not rerun the application everytime, when there is a small change.
for all projects we have to install globally using -g: npm install -g nodemon --save-developing


Every website has three things:
1. good UI that's a view, 
2. database object, the data model where we can store data
3. And the controller which controls the routing for us.

Every entities have different models
MVC - Model View Controller
Model - Schema
View - UI
Controller - Router


Crud-app
In this project we have using multiple packages 
they are:
1. Express
2. mongodb
3. mongoose
4. nodemon - for the changes

Simple calculator:
we have using 2 packages:
1. express
2. body-parser -  for getting input from form. (install using npm install body-parser)